Compiler vs interpretor

compiler                                                                    interpretor
- translates entire code into machine code before                         - Executes source code line-by-line        
execution,which generates an executable file.                             - Slower performance as it translates and executes code line by line
-generates faster-running code                                            - Provides more interactive debugging capability since errors can be 
-Debugging can be more challenging because errors                           identified and corrected during runtime
are identified after the entire code is compiled                          - Consume less memory
-consume more memory                                                      - shorter development cycle
-Longer development cycle due to the compilation
 step


Adv of js

1.Versatile-JavaScript is a versatile language that can be used for both front-end (client-side) and back-end (server-side) development
2.Scalability: Suitable for projects of all sizes, from small websites to large-scale applications.
3.Platform Independence: Runs on all major web browsers.
4.Large Ecosystem: Abundant libraries, frameworks, and tools available.
5.Interactivity: Enables dynamic and interactive web pages.
6.Cross-Browser Compatibility: Ensures consistent performance across browsers.


JS engine
1.JavaScript engine is a program or component that interprets and executes JavaScript code
2.It takes JavaScript code written by developers and translates it into instructions that the computer's processor can understand and execute

JavaScript engines are used whenever you need to execute JavaScript code, such as web development,Server-Side Development,Mobile Application Development,Game Development,IOT


How JS differs from other pgming languages
1.Interpretation and Dynamic Typing
2.Single-threaded with asynchronous behaviour achieved through events
3.Primarily used for web dev 
4. Runs on all major web browsers and can be executed on various platforms using Node.js
5.DOM manipulation



Why Js is synchronous?  How to make asynchronous

Js is synchronous as it executes sequentially one statement at a time in the order it appearws in the program.
We can make code execution asynchronous using various techniques and APIs.
Like Callbacks,promises,Async/Await



JS working

-All the code is executed under global execution content which involves memory allocation and code execution
-in memory allocation variables are allocated as undefined,functions whole functionality is stored
3.uring code execution phase variables are assigned its values,functions are invoked and returned

-firstly the code is parsed by the engine,which involves breaking the code into smaller components asnd ensures the code is valid

-compiles code into machine code,engines use interpretation and compilation techniques to optimize performance.

-The compiled code is executed line by line.The compiled code is executed line by line
